Add minidump scrubbing docs (#2504)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/platforms/common/data-management/sensitive-data/attachment-scrubbing.mdx

## Source Selectors

All attachments can be selected using the `$attachments` [Value Type](../advanced-datascrubbing/#value-types) selector at the root of the selector, followed by the specific filename.
The filename must be in quotes to write a specific filename, but wildcards can also be used.

For example, for the filename `minidump.dmp`, you can select all fields to be scrubbed using `$attachments.'minidump.dmp'.**`. To write the same using a wildcard to select all attachments, you would write `$attachmetns.*.**` or even simply `$attachments.**`.

### Minidump Selectors

A minidump is always an attachment, but it also has its own [value type](../advanced-datascrubbing/#value-types) of `$minidump`, which allows you to select all fields that can be scrubbed in a minidump using `$minidump.**`.
This really is a shorthand for selecting the fields of all attachments that are minidumps: `$attachments.$minidump.**`.

Our examples thus far have repeatedly referred to all fields in a minidump that can be scrubbed.
For the purpose of PII scrubbing, we currently represent the minidump as a flat structure with the following fields:

> - The **stack memory**: These are memory regions in the minidump that are used as stack memory by a thread.

Author: Items are usually selectable by multiple selectors though, the value type or the field name.  In this case we don't always have all of them available so I chose to concentrate on the items and not their (multiple) selectors.

---
title: "Attachment Scrubbing"
sidebar_order: 4
keywords: ["pii", "gdpr", "personally identifiable data", "compliance", "minidump"]
---

Events can have attachments which may also contain PII.
[Minidumps](/platforms/native/guides/minidumps) are a common attachment type for native crash reports which can contain PII in various sections of the file.

## Data scrubbing methods in attachments

When scrubbing attachments, and especially minidumps, it is often important to be able to do this without destroying the original file format.

> This is done by understading enough of the file format and using custom selectors which will try and only let you modify certain parts of the file, [see below](#source-selectors) for more information on the source selectors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is done by understanding enough of the file format and using custom selectors which will try and only let you modify certain parts of the file, [see below](#source-selectors) for more information on the source selectors.
```

> This is done by understanding enough of the file format and using custom selectors which will try and only let you modify certain parts of the file, [see below](#source-selectors) for more information on the source selectors.

Reviewer 2: 👍

> However when actually modifying some data in the file, we can not modify the length of the file, this has implications for how the [Methods](../advanced-datascrubbing/#methods) behave:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, when actually modifying some data in the file, we can not modify the length of the file. This has implications for how the [Methods](../advanced-datascrubbing/#methods) behave:
```

> - Any modification which results in a replacement text which is **longer** than the original will be **truncated**.

Author: Ouch, I should know better!

- Any modification which results in a replacement text which is **shorter** than the original will be **padded** using `x` as padding character.

Here is how this works specifically for each method:

- *Remove*: As the entire field is removed, it is essentially replaced with the padding character.
- *Mask*: This behaves as normal, all data is replaced with `*` masking character.

> - *Hash*: Hasing happens as usual, however the **binary representation** of the match is hashed, regardless of the encoding the match was made in.  The resulting hash is padded or truncated as described above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- *Hash*: Hashing happens as usual, however the **binary representation** of the match is hashed, regardless of the encoding the match was made in.  The resulting hash is padded or truncated as described above.
```

- *Replace*: This behaves like normal, with the replacement being padded or truncated as described above.

## Source selectors

> All attachments can be select using the `$attachments` [Value Type](../advanced-datascrubbing/#value-types) selector at the root of the selector, this can be followed by the specific filename itself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All attachments can be selected using the `$attachments` [Value Type](../advanced-datascrubbing/#value-types) selector at the root of the selector, this can be followed by the specific filename itself.
```

> The filename part need to be quoted to write the actual filename but wildcards can be used as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The filename part needs to be quoted to write the actual filename but wildcards can be used as well.
```

For example if your filename is `minidump.dmp` you can select all fields which can be scrubbed using `$attachments.'minidump.dmp'.**`.
To write the same using a wildcard to select all attachments you would write `$attachmetns.*.**` or even simply `$attachments.**`.

### Minidump selectors

A minidump is always an attachment, but it also has its own [value type](../advanced-datascrubbing/#value-types) of `$minidump`.
This allows you to select all fields which can be scrubbed in a minidump using `$minidump.**`.
This really is a shorthand for selecting the fields of all attachments which are minidumps: `$attachments.$minidump.**`.

So far we have repeatedly referred to all fields in a minidump which can be scrubbed.
For the puprpose of PII scrubbing we currently represent the minidump as a flat structure with the following fields:

- The **stack memory**: These are memory regions in the minidump which are used as stack memory by a thread.
  The [value type](../advanced-datascrubbing/#value-types) selector `$stack_memory` can be used to select these regions.

>   Generally they will contain binary data so be careful with the [data types](../advanced-datascrubbing/#data-types) used to scrub these regions.

Author: I'm not sure the first comma should be here?  The 2nd indeed is much better.

>   Generally they will contain binary data so be careful with the [data types](../advanced-datascrubbing/#data-types) used to scrub these regions.

Reviewer 2: The first comma is entirely optional :)

  In particular for stack memory it is **not recommended** to be scrubbed, since this is used by the event processing pipeline to unwind the stack and build a readable stack trace for the event.
  Inadvertedly modifying the stack in an undesired way will make this process impossible and the event much less useful.

  In general all [data types](../advanced-datascrubbing/#data-types) result in a textual regular expression match on some data, for the stack this regular expression is matched as a binary UTF-8 regular expression so that any UTF-8 embedded in the binary data will be matched.

>   Additionally the regular expression is applied to any valid UTF-16LE strings found withing the binary data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Additionally the regular expression is applied to any valid UTF-16LE strings found within the binary data.
```

- The **heap memory**: For the current implementation this is considered to be any memory region which is not used as stack memory.

>   This means it could include other non-stack regions like `mmap`ed files.  All these memory regions can be selected using the `$heap_memory` [value type](../advanced-datascrubbing/#value-types) selector.

Author: I'm somewhat reluctant to simple replace "it" with "heap memory" as this is kind of not wholly correct since this paragraph is trying to explain that the "heap memory" name is a bit of a misnomer.  Can we use "This means these memory regions could include ..."?  Or is that too ambiguous again?

"such as `mmap` fiules" is unfortunately incorrect.  Would "such as files which are mapped to the process' memory using `mmap`." be a good way to finish that sentence?

>   This means it could include other non-stack regions like `mmap`ed files.  All these memory regions can be selected using the `$heap_memory` [value type](../advanced-datascrubbing/#value-types) selector.

Reviewer 2: Generally, the term "this" should be followed by a noun for greater clarity, but it's not a strict requirement. I think both of the changes you suggest are fine, with one minor edit - "such as files *that* are mapped to the process' memory using `mmap`."

  Since the heap memory is not used in the event processing pipeline it is much safer to modify these memory regions.

  Like for stack memory all [data types](../advanced-datascrubbing/#data-types) are matched as a binary UTF-8 regular expression as well as in any valid UTF-16LE strings found within the binary memory region.

- A minidump also contains a list of **code modules** which were loaded at the time the minidump was created.
  This module list contains information about each module, including two fields which could contain file paths: the path of the code file and the path of the associated debug file.

>   As these fields are pathnames they could contain a user's home directory, so it makes sense to apply the *Usernames in filepaths* [data type](../advanced-datascrubbing/#data-types) to these fields.  The fields can be selected individually path their respective field names:

Reviewer: the last sentence does not make any sense?

  - `code_file`
  - `debug_file`

  Both fields have a [value type](../advanced-datascrubbing/#value-types) of `$string`.
  Any modification will exclude the basename of the pathnames to ensure the event processing pipeline can still operate correctly on the minidump.

  An example of a rule to scrub these fields would be displayed by the UI like this:

  ```
  [Remove] [Usernames in filepaths] from [$minidump.code_file || $minidump.debug_file]
  ```

> - Linux minidumps can contain the process's **command line** and **environment variables**, these are included as copies of the files in `/proc/$pid/cmdline` and `/proc/$pid/environ`.
>   As they are direct copies of these files, they have this file format: NULL-separated records of `argv` arguments or `VAR=val` pairs respectively.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Linux minidumps can contain both the **command line** and **environment variables**, which are included as copies of the files in `/proc/$pid/cmdline` and `/proc/$pid/environ`. Since these are direct copies of these files, they have this file format: NULL-separated records of `argv` arguments or `VAR=val` pairs respectively.
```

>   To select these you can currently only use their [value types](../advanced-datascrubbing/#value-types): `$binary`.
>   This works because they are currently the only fields in the minidump with a binary value type.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To select these, you can currently use only their [value types](../advanced-datascrubbing/#value-types): `$binary`, which will be successful because these are currently the only fields in the minidump with a binary value type.
```

>   An example of how the UI would display a rule to scrub the home directory from the `$HOME` env var would be:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  This example displays a rule to scrub the home directory from the `$HOME` env var:
```

  ```
  [Remove] [HOME=[^\u0000+]\u0000] from [$minidump.$binary]
  ```

>   Note the syntax to denote a string delimited by NULL in the regular expression: any sequence of characters not containing NULL, but ending in NULL.
>   Here NULL itself is represented by its unicode codepoint: `\u0000`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note the syntax to denote a string delimited by NULL in the regular expression: any sequence of characters not containing NULL, but ending in NULL. Here, NULL itself is represented by its unicode codepoint: `\u0000`.
```
